# Vending-Machine-Factory-Simulator
CCPROG3 - Major Course Output

This is a program that simulates a Vending Machine Factory. It is a menu-based program with the following options:
1. Create a Vending Machine
In this feature, the user is asked to choose to create either a Regular or a Special Vending Machine. Descriptions of the basic attributes and behaviors of both vending machines are described below. For this option, the program does not need to maintain any previously created Vending Machines.
2. Test a Vending Machine
In this feature, the user is asked to choose to either test the Vending Features or the Maintenance Features of the current vending machine (i.e., the most recent that was created). When Vending Features are chosen, the different options are tested until the user chooses to end Vending Features Test, which will then bring the user back to the Test a Vending Machine menu options. The same is done when the user chooses Maintenance Features.
3. Exit
In this feature, the program terminates properly.

A Regular Vending Machine consists of item slots that act as an interface for the user to know what is available for purchase. Each slot is mapped to a specific item and – to keep things simple – kindly assume that items stored in the slots are unique from each other. The vending machine does not hold infinite items, so there is a common limit for the number of items that can be stocked. For the project, there must be at least eight (8) slots and the vending machine should have a capacity of at least ten (10) items per slot1 . The availability of an item should be obvious to the user. In terms of vending features, the machine should be allowed to receive payment from the user in different denominations2 , dispense the item based on the choice of the user, and produce change. Note that a user may proceed directly with producing change and skip choosing an item – as if they changed their mind about making a purchase. Additionally, if there is not enough change in the machine, a transaction should not take place and the user should be informed of the issue. Note that all vending machines must also inform the user of the amount of calories found in the item. Lastly, as vending machines do not hold infinite items, you may assume that the owner/operator of the vending machine regularly performs maintenance. Maintenance features include restocking/stocking specific items, setting the price of each item type, collecting the payment/money, and replenishing the money (for different denominations) that will be used by the machine to provide change. Also, the vending machine has the capability of printing a summary of transactions. In other words, the vending machine should at least list the quantity of each item sold and the total amount collected in the sales starting from the previous stocking. This implies that there should also be a display of the starting inventory and the ending inventory from the last restocking.

Special Vending Machines can also be produced by the simulation program. These machines are special because, apart from the features of a regular vending machine, the machine can also prepare a selected product based on (a) the items that are stored in the machine and (b) the choices of items for the product that the user wants. This means that the amount of calories for the final product is the combination of the calorie count of each chosen item to include (which might involve more than just addition). Note that since this is a simulation of the machine's work, your program will display how the final product is “prepared”.
